# Text-Mining-in-Java-Stanford-CoreNLP-TF-IDF-and-K-means.

Contents of the project:
	1. Source Code. Folder with all the *.java files of the project (excluding Referenced Libraries). The source files are only included as reference to have easy access to the code, they are NOT intended to be used for running the application.
	2. Resources. Folder containing the preprocessed version of the example documents, as well as the list of stop words used during the processing.
	3. "topics.txt". Text file with the topics extracted for each folder in the dataset of the assignment.
	4. "Raw Data.png" and "Clustered Data.png". PNG versions of the plots generated for the visualization section of the assignment.
	5. "Confusion Matrices.xlsx". Excel workbook containing the confusion matrices for the three clusters of the assignment.
	6. "output.txt". Example of the output generated by the application when run successfully.
	7. "bds_hw2.jar". Runnable JAR file designed to execute the application. All the required dependency files (e.g. referenced libraries) are contained within this JAR file.

To run the JAR file, simply execute java -jar bds_hw2.jar and follow the instructions prompted:
	1. Use preprocessed documents included in JAR file? (y/n). Input "y" to use the preprocessed documents included in the JAR file, or "n" to provide a path to the directory containing the files to be analyzed. (This option is provided because the NER module of the Stanford CoreNLP API can take a lot of time to complete.)
	2. Clustering algorithm: (0 = K-means, 1 = K-means++). Input "0" to run the standard K-means algorithm, or "1" to run the improved version K++.
	3. Similarity measure for the clustering algorithm: (0 = Euclidean, 1 = Cosine). Input "0" to used Euclidean distance as similarity measure, or "1" to use cosine similarity.
	4. Number of clusters k (at least 2). Input a number greater or equal to 2, indicating the value of k, the number of clusters the model should identify.
	5. Path to the directory with the documents to analyze (Only prompted when then answer to 1. is "n"). Provide the absolute path to the directory containing the files to be analyzed. The application will search for "*.txt" files in all the subfolders of the path, so the files need not be organized in folders per cluster.
